1.Java program to find perfect numbers.
2.Java program to print perfect numbers from 1 to 1000
3.Java program to split number into digits.
4.Java program to swap two array.
5.Java program to find NCR factor of given number.
6.Java program to find generic root.
7.Java program to add two number without using addition operator.
8.Java program to sum digits of a number.
9.Java program to reverse a number.
	
				String Based Programs

10.Java program to find the frequency of one string in another string.
11.Java program to remove vowels from a string.
12.Java program to remove common characters from two strings.
13.Java program to finding Shortest and Longest Words in a String.
14.Java program to reverse a String without using direct method.
15.Java program to input name, middle name and surname of a person and print only the initials.
16.Java program to remove duplicates characters from given String.
17.Java program to count the occurrence of any character in given String.
18.Java program to find palindromic substring in a string.
19.Java program to accept a string and print each character of the string along with its ASCII code.

				Common Logical Programs

20.Java program to find whether given no. is Armstrong or not.
21.Java program to Generate prime numbers between 1 & given number.
22.Java program to calculate Factorial of a number using recursion.
23.Java program to check Palindrome Number.
24.Java program to calculate the Simple Interest and Input by the user.
25.Java program to design a class account using the inheritance and static that show all function of bank and generate account number dynamically.
26.Java program to find out the HCF and LCF.
27.Java program to test the Prime number.
28.Java program to Demonstrate Type Casting.
29.Find the average, sum, min and max of the N numbers Using user Input in Java.
30.How can you determine if String has all Unique Characters?
31.How to reverse a String without using any direct method.
32.How to convert String to integer without using any direct method in Java.
33.How to find the missing values from an sorted array.
34.How to reverse an array without using any built in method and any other array.
35.How to remove specific character from an String in Java.
36.How to find the caller of a method in Java.
37.How to call private method from another class in java

				JDBC Based Programs

38.Write a java program to create a table through frontend application?
39.Write a java program which illustrates the concept of Batch processing?
40.Write a java program to create a table through frontend application?
41.Write a java program which illustrates the concept of updatable ResultSet?
42.Write a java program which illustrates the concept of scrollable ResultSet?
43.Write a java program which points the data of a table along with its column names?
44.Write a java program which illustrates the concept of resource bundle file or how to develop a flexible jdbc application along with its metadata?
45.Write a java program which illustrates the concept of DatabaseMetaData and ResultSetMetaData?
46.Write a jdbc program to retrieve the data from excel?
47.Write a java program to retrieve the records from a specified database by accepting input from keyboard?
48.Write a java program to insert a record in dept database by accepting the data from keyboard at runtime using dynamic queries?
49.Write a java program to retrieve the data from emp database?
50.Write a jdbc program which will insert a record in the Student database?